Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, we are here to worship you, to be present in your presence, to encounter you, to go deep, to dive, to drown in you.
And Lord, we welcome your presence to envelop us, submerge us,
Baptize us in your power and love tonight.
Lord, we're showing up because we want you, and we want more of you, and we want more of you for our people, for this island, where we say our immense everything that has been sung tonight.
And as we open your word now, we pray, God, meet us.
face to face in the face of Jesus Christ, your Son, by the power of the Spirit.
Amen.
You can take your seats.
Thank you to those leading us tonight in wonderful worship.
It's good to be here.
My name is David Legg.
It's a privilege for me to minister to you tonight for this little while.
You should have gotten on your seat one of these little flyers.
I work with an organization called Dwellings at some of the time in my ministry, and it's a big part of my life now.
Dwellings is an organization that just helps resource people around cultivating communities, around the presence of Jesus.
So if you're interested in that at all, just scan the barcode and you'll go through to a page dedicated to Jansy in particular, your age group.
There are free resources.
There's a free training course.
If you're interested in cultivating a group at your university, in your own home, in your workplace, or wherever, there's loads of stuff there that you can avail of to help you so you can sign up and train even with us for that.
So take one of those with you.
I want to read 2 Corinthians with you chapter 5, and just a few verses.
2 Corinthians chapter 5
Verse 13 to 15, all right?
2 Corinthians 5, 13 to 15.
Paul says, if we are out of our mind, as some say, it is for God.
Obviously, people thought Paul the Apostle was loopy.
He was crazy.
He was a moron.
Literally, that word is huge of him.
Foolish.
It's the word we get more on from and Greek.
And so he's saying, if we are out of our mind as some say, it is for God.
If we are in our right mind, it is for you.
For Christ's love compels us because we are convinced that one died for all and therefore all died.
And he died for all that those who live should no longer live for themselves, but for him who died for them and was raised again.
Fascinates me, verse 13, if we are out of our mind, and the Corinthians, some of them at least, and certainly the people in society, thought Paul was crazy.
They thought he was a fool.
And you know something, people are going to think we're nuts for living for Jesus, but not just having the Christian label, but actually doing something about it and going to tell others, evangelize, obey the Great Commission, be sent into the world to preach the gospel.
My challenge to you tonight is really too full, but the first thing is, are you prepared to be a fool for Jesus?
A little caveat, don't be just a Christian idiot, because there's a lot of Christian idiots about.
And there's a lot of Christian idiots who are idiots in their Christianity.
So I'm not talking about puking people or trying to force things down people's throats against their will.
I'm not talking about aligning with certain things that get Christianity about me.
No, no, no, no.
Listen, there's enough offense in the message that Christ has given us.
to put us to death.
We don't need any appendages to the message of the gospel to get into trouble.
If we just preach Jesus Christ in the world in which we live, which is increasingly turning toward Him, but nevertheless, there will always be a cold space for Christians in this world of system.
And we've just got to get with that and become comfortable with that.
But are you prepared to be a fool for Christ?
It's a guy called C.T.
Stud.
Has anybody ever heard of him?
He was a missionary in the 19th century, and he was actually a prominent member of the Cambridge Seven.
The Cambridge Seven were a group of seven students from Cambridge University.
The year was 1885.
And they chose to dedicate their lives completely to the missionary cause in China, through the China and land mission.
Some of you may have heard of that organization.
And stood himself
His parents were very wealthy, so he was going to inherit a great deal of money.
He was actually a famous cricketer, as well.
He was a sports person.
He was an excellent student at Cambridge.
But with the other six of the Cambridge seven, they decided to give up their comfortable lives, their inheritance, their theme, and share the gospel in China.
and their story of the journey to China, they were influencers of their age.
It had such an impact on the young people of that generation that many then went to the mission field.
And see he stood himself, he went to China, then he went to India, and then he ended up in Africa, blazing a trail for Jesus.
Listen to some of the things he said, okay, he was a fool for Christ.
Some want to live within the sound of church or chapel bell,
I want to run a rescue shop within a yard of hell.
Do you like that?
Some want to live within the sound of church or chapel bell, but I want to run a rescue shop within a yard of hell.
He was the guy who first said, only one life will soon be passed, only what's done for Christ will last.
He said, if Jesus Christ be God and died for me,
What sacrifice can be too great for me to make for him?"
He also said, we talk of the second coming.
Half of the world has never heard of the first.
Incredible guy.
He wrote a little book called The Chocolate Soldier.
He was radical.
And he said, let us not glide through this world and then slip quietly into heaven.
without having blown the trumpet loud and long for our redeemer Jesus Christ.
Let us see to it, listen to this, that the devil will hold a thanksgiving service in hell when he gets the news of our departure from the fiend of battle.
He said, every true Christian is a soldier of Christ, a hero who par excellence, braver than the bravest, scorning the soft seductions of peace and her oft-repeated warnings against hardship, disease, danger, and death whom he counts among his bosom friends.
The otherwise Christian is a chocolate Christian, dissolving in water and melting at the smell of fire.
He didn't take a soft touch to Christians.
of his age, what are we like in a 21st century when it comes to luxury, affluence and comfort, the cost of discipleship and being kind of the fool for Jesus.
He was once an evangelist in London, he dressed up with a, you know, like a clown, really, or a circus mastery, striped blonde trousers and tails, and he had a top hat on him, and on the front,
of the top hat it said, a food for Christ.
You can imagine walking through London, looking like that.
Everybody was tethering and laughing and he hitting at him.
And then as he passed them by, on the back of the top hat was written a question, whose food are you?
I'd rather be a food for Christ.
And a full for politics.
And a full for pop culture.
in a fool for alcohol, and drug abuse, and immoral sexuality, and confusion.
I'd rather be a fool for Jesus.
Look chapter 12, Jesus told a parable about a guy who's doing really well.
He was a farmer, and he was so successful that he had to pull down his barns, build greater ones, because of the harvest that he was accruing.
And he said to himself,
You have so much going for you.
Take your ease.
Eat, drink, and be merry.
But God said, you fool.
For this night your soul will be required of you.
And then who shall those things be?
Fool for what world?
You know, you could be counting your coins or your, what is it, crypto?
It's crazy stuff, and I have a friend who said, I wish I could have bought them years ago, and they were worth very little, and they're all worth 100,000 hours on that.
But you could be counting all that, or you could be counting your houses, or you could be counting your degrees.
And I'm not against those things.
Don't misunderstand me whatsoever.
But are you storing up treasure in heaven?
And you know the way to store up treasure in heaven?
It's to be a fool for Christ.
Now here's the second thing I want to emphasize tonight.
Are people like C.T.
stunned?
Paul the Apostle.
And everybody else I've mentioned or you can think of regarding heroes of the faith who live down their lives for Jesus.
How are those people motivated?
What makes them tick?
They're fools not just for Christ.
They're fools for love.
And you must get this.
Really, this is the heart of what I want to share with you.
And God has laid upon my heart for you.
Paul says here, we're counted as fools, but if we're fools, we're fools for you and we're wise for you because the love of Christ compels us.
They were fools for love.
The love of Christ compelled them.
It literally means some versions say, constrain them or overmaster them.
The love of Christ controlled them.
Press them.
Well, the old city focus from the country.
Any farmers?
Does anybody know what a cattle press is?
When you're giving a beast an injection, okay?
You can't catch a... Do you know?
Do you know?
We're not in the wild west, you don't last see them and bring them in.
You put them in a cattle press and basically they're pressed in.
that they can't even move to give them an injection or whatever else the bad is going to do.
That's the idea here.
The love of Christ presses you and constrains you.
Actually, this Greek word is used.
Do you remember the miracle of the woman with the hemorrhage, the issue of blood for 12 years?
And she touched the hem of Jesus' garment and she was completely healed.
And Jesus said, who touched me?
on the disciples said, what are you talking about?
You're in a crowd.
Everybody's pressing and against you.
That's the word.
The love of Christ presses in upon us against us.
This word is also used of holding a prisoner captive.
The love of Christ
is what keeps us as prisoners.
No, it sets us free, of course, but it's almost as if we're captivated, literally, captives to the love of Jesus.
No, this is where we need to be careful.
Because some people hear pep talks in church and they say, whoa, that's exciting.
And they lack a dentody and they feel this is, this will make me,
You know, somebody feel good and have a purpose in life and all the rest.
Or some feel it's a duty.
I have to do this, you know.
And it's a kind of legalistic thing.
You know, this is what Christians do.
Or it's a performance thing where you're trying to earn favor with God in some way.
That is never the way to serve God.
And that's never the way to take the gospel.
you'll not survive.
You've got to be compelled by love.
And it is only the compulsion, the captivation of love that is going to enable you to be a fool for Christ and if necessary, lay down your very life for Him, only His love.
And the word for love here is agape, which is the very love of God.
God's own love.
And it's spoken of here in these terms.
How do we understand this love of God?
For if Christ's
Love compels us because we are convinced of the message that one died for all, and therefore all died.
And if he died for all those who lived, she no longer lived for themselves.
It is this love, agape love, that Lauren was singing about, for God so loved that he gave this sacrificial love of the cross, the love of Calvary, convinced.
Because we're convinced of this policy.
Now, are you convinced of it?
Honestly, are you convinced of it?
Because only when you're convinced of this, will you be inflamed, captivated, overwhelmed, overcome, driven, controlled, constrained to go and be a fool for Jesus Christ?
It's all about love.
Have you lost your first love?
First love is original love.
God is that original love?
But maybe your heart wants beat with love for Jesus Christ.
You once wore, were on fire and flamed and enthusiastic for the love of Jesus, but it's grown cold.
Now listen, before you go off to take the gospel anywhere, if some of you are intending to do that, you can only give away what you have received.
And I would urge you tonight.
even in this meeting to get a feeling of the love, the God, the love of God in Jesus Christ.
Nothing else is going to compel you.
Judy won't do it.
Dilt or shame won't do it.
Fear won't do it.
Even hell and the vision of people going to hell won't do it.
Just courage won't do it.
It has to be loved.
Because love is the sum tool of the whole law of God.
Love is what it's all about.
Love fulfills the law and the prophets.
Love is why Jesus came.
Love is who God is.
And it's the love of Christ that must compel us.
Do you know you were made our lover?
And this is what your generation actually has been shipwrecked on.
A mind to you, by the way.
Your lot are starting to wake up to it a little bit quicker and the younger and the guy.
But we all have substitute loves.
It's the problem.
But what we try to do as Christians, we try to cauterize or sterilize ourselves against those loves.
And we shouldn't be doing those things, whatever they are, addictions or sexual problems and sins that we indulge in.
You know, that they're not right.
But what they're actually indicating is that we are lovers.
We are passionate pleasures, seekers, that we were made for love.
We were made for delight.
We were made to be captivated.
The problem is we have stopped short of what we were made for, lovers of God, compelled by the love of Christ.
Like C.S.
Lewis says, it would seem that our Lord finds our desires not too strong, but too weak.
We are half-hearted creatures, fooling about with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered us like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum because he cannot imagine what is meant by an offer of a holiday at the sea.
We are far too easily pleased.
Maybe you're struggling with sin tonight like we all do.
Certain sins and you say,
I just can't stop.
This passion, this desire, this lust, this drive is too great.
No, it's not great enough.
It's not great enough.
And the only thing that's going to replace it is a greater attraction, a greater beauty, a greater drive.
And that's found in the love of Christ.
That's found in Christ and Him only.
Romans 5 verse 5 in the message says, the Holy translation says, the love of God is poured into our hearts by the Holy Spirit.
The message says, we can't round up enough containers to hold everything God generously pours into our lives through the Holy Spirit.
That's incredible.
God is infinite.
God is eternal.
The heaven of heavens cannot contain Him.
In Him we live and move and have our being.
Think about this, all of existence, all of Mater lives inside of God.
He's bigger than at all.
And yet he says, I'll pour my infinite eternal love into your heart.
And I'll tell you this, you see, when he does that, all the other false loves will be giant.
Just stop trying to, you know, deal with your sin.
I'm not saying you don't repent, but you do repent, but what you need
It's the baptism of love.
Yes, yes.
By the Holy Spirit.
And you know what that means, then, as Paul finishes here, you no longer live for yourself.
That those who live should no longer live for themselves, but for him who died for them.
He was raised again.
You know what Jesus said?
Look, 14.
Large crowds were traveling with Jesus and turning to them.
He said, if anyone comes to me,
And does not hate father and mother, wife and children, brothers and sisters.
Yes, even their own life such a person cannot be my disciple.
And whoever does not carry their cross and follow me cannot be my disciple.
And as Jesus encouraging us to break the law of God and hate our father and mother, it says honor your father.
That's not what he said.
He's using exaggeration.
And what he's saying is, your love for your parents and for your siblings and for your family ought to look like hate and comparison to your passionate compulsion for the love of Jesus Christ.
That's what he's saying.
It's the love of Christ compels us to carry our cross, to deny ourselves.
It's nonsensical in a way.
That's why the foolishness of God is wiser than the wisdom of man, because it's not a denial when you think about it, because you're getting everything that you would ever need for.
A little bit might involve a cross.
So I'm calling you tonight to be a fool for Jesus, to be a fool for love and to not live for yourself, but for the one who died for all and rose again.
Let me finish with this story that Billy Graham shared.
It was a letter written by an American college student
who had been converted to communism in Mexico.
And the message today to translate probably could be the language of like a fundamentalist terrorist or something like that.
But the purpose of the letter was to explain to his fiancée why he must break off their engagement.
This is what he said, I'm quoting for Beaten.
We communists have a high casual deariate.
We're the ones who get shot and hung and lynched and tarred and feathered and jailed and slandered and ridiculed and fired from our jobs.
And in every other way, we are uncomfortable as possible.
A certain percentage of us get killed or imprisoned.
We live in virtual poverty.
We turn back to the party every penny we make above what is absolutely necessary to keep us alive.
We communists don't have the time or the money for many movies or concerts or T-bone sticks or decent homes or new cars.
We've been described as fanatics.
We are fanatics.
Our lives are dominated by one great overshadowing factor, the struggle for world communism.
We communists have a philosophy of life which no amount of money could buy.
We have a cause to fight for.
a definite purpose in life.
We subordinate our petty personal selves into a great movement of humanity, and if our personal lives seem hard or our egos appear to suffer through subordination to the party, then we are adequately compensated by the thought that each of us in a small way is contributing to something new and true and better for mankind.
There is one thing in which I am dead earnest, and that is the Communist cause.
It is my life, my business, my religion, my hobby, my sweetheart, my wife, unmistress, my bread and meat.
I work at it in the daytime and dream of it at night.
It holds me, grows on me, not lessons as time goes on.
Therefore, I cannot carry on a friendship, a love affair, or even a conversation.
without relieving it to this force which both drives and guides my life.
I evaluate people, books, ideas and actions according to how they affect the communist cause and by their attitude toward it.
I've already been in jail because of my ideas and if necessary, I'm ready to go before a firing squad.
He was a fool for communism.
And they're all sorts of fools for all sorts of isms on our streets tonight.
But it's because they're not compelled, constrained, captivated by the love of the one who died for us.
And rose again for all.
Will you be a fool for him?
We sang it tonight.
You open my eyes to your wonders and you.
You captured my heart with this love.
Because nothing on earth is as pure
That's it.
There is nothing else.
Have you been captivated by him?
And as you go, or will you go with that compulsion driven by the love, nothing else?
Now we're going to have permanency.
I'm going to pray briefly for you now, but we're going to permanency.
And I want to invite you, if you have other loves, there's a word for that called idols.
If you need to deal with those other loves, they could be very overtly sinful things, or they could be legitimate things, but they're taken up a place in your heart that you know
belongs to Jesus.
But if you need a little bit of help and someone to stand with you tonight to confess that and to deal with it, there's a prayer team that's going to be up here coming.
But then as you empty yourself of that idol, and maybe even take up your cross and say, I am to myself of myself.
Because listen, I am a coward, OK?
I'm not CT stud, right?
I'm no stud.
You know?
I need help with this.
I let my comforts, you know?
I don't like danger.
I've struggled with fear in my lifetime and still could, but I know that the love of Jesus Christ will overwhelm anything.
And I know that my answer and my secret is being filled with him to push all those other things out.
So if you want not just to be emptied of your idols, your sin and yourself, but you want to be captivated and filled, immersed, submerged, overwhelmed by the love of Christ, as we worship, the prayer team will be up here and there's an opportunity to pray over you.
Will you do that?
In order that you can go with this love, I'll tell you, you can have the ABC of the gospel, you can know your theology.
You can be okay with the gifts of the Spirit.
I'm telling you now that if you've got love, the love of Christ dressing on you, you will be a walking revival.
It's a thing people are crying out for is love, more than anything.
Lord, I want to thank you.
For your word, I thank you for your love.
I thank you for Jesus who's shown us your love.
Demonstrated it.
They're why we were still sinners.
Christ died for us.
And Lord, we invite you Holy Spirit to come and rest on people.
I pray that you will rest from their grasp those idols that they are holding on to.
rest from their grasp.
Help them, Lord, to let go.
Take them from them.
Help them to lay down their lives for you as an offering.
And take up the cross tonight and doing that as you cleanse them as a vessel and they're emptying themselves.
Lord, would you fill them?
with the supernatural agape love of heaven, the love of God, that is four-dimensional, incomprehensible.
Would you fill them with the Holy Spirit and your love and send them out, compelled by the love of Jesus?
In whose name we pray?